Add DEVELOPMENT.md (#82)
opendatahub-io/ai-edge: DEVELOPMENT.md

# Development Guide

> **Note**

> > This assumes that you have already followed the steps in the [README.md](./README.md) to set-up your OpenShift Clusters, ODH, ACM, OSP, etc.

Author: OpenShift Pipelines

> > This assumes that you have already followed the steps in the [README.md](./README.md) to set-up your OpenShift Clusters, ODH, ACM, OSP, etc.

Author: Looks like OSP/RHOSP is reserved for [Red Hat OpenStack Platform](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/16.0/html/product_guide/ch-understanding-rhosp). I'll change this line.

> > This assumes that you have already followed the steps in the [README.md](./README.md) to set-up your OpenShift Clusters, OpenDataHub, ACM, OpenShift Pipelines, etc.

Author: fixed

## Useful Information

### Models/Apps

> The GitHub repository is split into two main parts, Pipelines and ACM. Working on one part usually doesn’t involve working with the other, so you usually won’t have to set-up both dev environments.

Author: Can you elaborate/provide an example of what you'd like to see please?

> The GitHub repository is split into two main parts, Pipelines and ACM. Working on one part usually doesn’t involve working with the other, so you usually won’t have to set-up both dev environments.

Reviewer: If the user (developer) will work with Pipelines, what will they be able to achieve? They will likely be able to take input model in S3 plus some deployment `Containerfile`s, and setup the pipelines so that upon manual (?) execution of the pipeline, the new container image with the model and runtime is built, tested, pushed to a container registry, and a PR filed to update the checksum of the image in some deployment YAML.

> The GitHub repository is split into two main parts, Pipelines and ACM. Working on one part usually doesn’t involve working with the other, so you usually won’t have to set-up both dev environments.

Author: Shouldn't that information be put in the pipelines README then? e.g.

## Overview

This repo contains three pipelines (listed in typical order of execution):

* `azureml-container-pipeline`:
	* Downloads the model from Git, S3, or Azure. Can also use a model located in a `PersistentVolume`.
	* Downloads the `Containerfile` used to build the image from Git.
	* Verifies the model files and `Containerfile` are accessible by the pipeline.
	* Creates an `ImageStream` for testing and local use.
	* Builds the image using `buildah`.

* `test-mlflow-image-pipeline`:
	* Creates a `Deployment` using the image generated by `azureml-container-pipeline`.
	* Creates a `Service` to allow network traffic into the `Deployment`.
	* Tests model inference using the provided data.
	* Uploads the image to Quay.

* `gitops-update-pipeline`:
	* Clones the Git repository containing the ACM application code.
	* Updates the image reference used by the app.
	* Makes a Pull Request with the changes.

One aspect that is similar across both are the *models*/*apps*:

* *Models* (used by Pipelines): These are the actual trained model files generated by Python ([`tf2model/`](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/checkpoint), [`model.pkl`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/model_persistence.html), etc.)

> * *Apps* (used by ACM): TL;DR: Sets of `YAML` files that reference images built using Pipelines and uploaded to Quay. See [RHACM Managing Applications](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/applications/managing-applications).

Author: I think "acm application" should be changed to "ACM Application", since we're talking about the ACM specific term "Application" which is different from the dictionary one. I also think the sentences should be switched for clarity e.g.
> "Each model is packaged in its [own container image](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/blob/e0086c9e2c223c8d4a1df7a415d8aee736365e75/pipelines/containerfiles/Containerfile.openvino.mlserver.mlflow) alongside a model server e.g. [OVMS](https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.1/ovms_what_is_openvino_model_server.html). These images are then built using the pipelines, pushed to Quay, and deployed as [ACM Applications](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/applications/managing-applications)"

Wdyt?

> * *Apps* (used by ACM): TL;DR: Sets of `YAML` files that reference images built using Pipelines and uploaded to Quay. See [RHACM Managing Applications](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/applications/managing-applications).

Author: > "Packaged into container image and these images then built by pipelines" ... that does not sound correct.

Now that you mention it I can see how that's confusing, how about "packaged in its own container image [...] These images are built using the pipelines"? Like how Ahmed wrote. "Model package" sounds wrong to me too for some reason but I think input from other people would be helpful on this.

> * *Apps* (used by ACM): TL;DR: Sets of `YAML` files that reference images built using Pipelines and uploaded to Quay. See [RHACM Managing Applications](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html/applications/managing-applications).

Author: I don't ever remember us fetching from S3 _at runtime_. Fetching the model from S3 was in the Containerfile at one point though: https://gist.github.com/israel-hdez/1848d5a9788140c6f2e42ce316c70d5b#file-containerfile-with-storage-download-L1-L23

> We are currently using two sets of these as examples:

Author: I feel specifying that _we_ are providing/using two examples is better. We are likely going to change models soon and the sentence you're suggesting feels to me like we're saying we will keep our current models and just add more. WDYT?

> We are currently using two sets of these as examples:

Author: > "This repo currently contains two examples"?

Sure, I think I like this more. @devguyio?

> **Note**
>

> > 1. [Example TensorFlow model from the MLflow GitHub repository](https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/tree/ef0f922ca874dd94f9b88e8bfbde2a8cb2c385d2/examples/tensorflow)

Reviewer: Hmmm, actually, the `mlflow` repository does not contain the model (the `tf2model`). It contains merely the code to train the model.

> > 1. [Example TensorFlow model from the MLflow GitHub repository](https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/tree/ef0f922ca874dd94f9b88e8bfbde2a8cb2c385d2/examples/tensorflow)

Author: > Hmmm, actually, the `mlflow` repository does not contain the model (the `tf2model`). It contains merely the code to train the model.

Yep, `mlflow/examples/tensorflow/` and `opendatahub-ai-edge/pipelines/models/tensorflow-housing/` are very different. They might seem like copies of each other since they contain similar files e.g. `conda.yaml`, however they are not at all. The folder in the repo is a copy of the `artifacts/model` folder that gets generated when you train the model:
![image](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/assets/99439005/7a9543fb-8e53-4294-94c7-1c40291f5c49)

>

> > 2. [Example AzureML + MLflow + sklearn model provided by](https://github.com/stefan-bergstein/azureml-model-to-edge/tree/8e41fbfb2991cf437a6477553939e04c71103555/models/bike-rentals-auto-ml) [@stefan-bergstein](https://github.com/stefan-bergstein)

Author: Please see https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/pull/61#discussion_r1319151573 and https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/pull/61#discussion_r1319154024

>

> > See [#25](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/issues/25) and [#27](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/issues/27) for why.

Author: How about this?

```suggestion
> These models have been selected due to the popularity of scikit-learn, TensorFlow, and AzureML. MLflow is also a popular AI/ML platform and provides [easy ways to distribute and reuse models](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#projects). See [#25](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/issues/25) and [#27](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/issues/27) for more information.
```

|                       | **1**                    | **2**                  |
|-----------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|
| **Model (Pipelines)** | `tensorflow-housing`     | `bike-rentals-auto-ml` |
| **App (ACM)**         | `tensorflow-housing-app` | `bike-rental-app`      |

### Clusters

> **Note**
> See *"Infrastructure Configuration"* in [README.md](./README.md) for more information.

> You can visualize the clusters like this:

Author: Maybe specifying "We use the following naming conventions" would be better? I don't see mention of "Near Edge" clusters anywhere in the docs. WDYT?

* `local-cluster` (default): This is ACM hub cluster which represents a fully-fledged OpenShift cluster that's hosted on a cloud provider or at a customer data center. 

> * `near-edge-*`:  For an example use case, these are the near-edge clusters that can be located in a server room on-site (e.g. a factory). Typically customers have firewall restrictions for inbound traffic for such clusters and there is a high emphasis on security.

Author: > This bit assumes the user is using the `*.rhoai-edge-acm-poc.*` cluster setup. But that does not need to be the case, the user can use whatever cluster they like.

I didn't intend for the doc to seem like it assumes that name but rather to provide the reader some kind of visual, that's one of the reasons "For an example use case" is there. Maybe we can add a note e.g.:

> **NOTE**
>  `near-edge-*` is just an example, you can name these clusters whatever you want.

<br>

> It might want to focus on the importance of matching the cluster set name to the clusterSets in Placement in acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml)

I think this should be part of the main repo README if anything; You should only head to the DEVELOPMENT doc after you already have the PoC working in its default state, and that requires the clusterSet value in `base/near-edge.yaml` to be correct. Since the app overlays don't change this base value (maybe they should?) I don't think this information should be in this doc.

> We use a mix of AWS and GCP to host these clusters for diversity. Most of your dev work will be done on `local-cluster`, while ACM (also on `local-cluster`) deploys apps to `near-edge-*` clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use a mix of AWS and GCP to host these clusters for diversity. Typically you would use the `local-cluster` to test your work and this includes testing that ACM on the hub will correctly propagate the apps to the `near-edge-*` clusters.
```

## Pipelines

> **Note**

> > If you’re not going to be pushing new images to Quay, you can use the existing ones from the [`rhoai-edge` Quay organization](https://quay.io/organization/rhoai-edge).

Reviewer: So should the read (and be setup in such a way) that by default, these are the images that will be used?

Should this go to https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge/blob/main/pipelines/README.md#quay-repository-and-robot-permissions instead?

Author: Upon rereading this note is misplaced and unnecessarily confusing, I'll remove it.

* Create a new namespace for testing, preferably with the following name: `<your-kerberos-name>-pipeline-dev`
* Follow the steps in the [`Pipelines Setup README`](./pipelines/README.md).

## ACM

> **Note**
> These instructions will assume that you are making changes to the existing `bike-rental-app`.

* Create a new testing branch on your fork of the `opendatahub-io/ai-edge` repo, preferably named `<your-kerberos-name>-acm-dev`.
* Update and push these files (please see [this example](https://github.com/grdryn/ai-edge/commit/39a89e5bcacb6ae5a5b649797e2341889a94ea42)):
  * `acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml`
    * Change the namespace, Git path, and channel patch to your fork.
  * `acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml`
    * Change the Git branch **and namespace** to your dev one.
  * `acm/odh-edge/apps/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml`
    * Change the namespace to your own dev one.
* `oc apply -k acm/registration`

> * Add your dev namespace to the near-edge Cluster Set's `Namespace Bindings`.

Author: These instructions can be updated once Ger merges his PR #76 in a week or two (hopefully) but this works for now.
